## Abstract {.page_break_before}

The increase and spread of antimicrobial resistance (AMR) poses a global threat to human and animal health.
The emergence of mobilised resistance to last-line antibiotics such as carbapenems and polymyxins are a particular cause for alarm.
Given their ability to be laterally transferred between unrelated bacteria, surveillance of the evolution and transmission of these genes is vital to mitigating their impact.
However, the poor characterisation of many important non-clinical environments and bacteria as well as failings in the existing classification and nomenclature of AMR genes pose a major barrier to this work.
Metagenome assembled genome (MAG) methods, in which genomes are recovered from untargeted metagenomic sequencing, have been used to greatly increase the diversity of sampled bacterial genomes.
Therefore, by profiling AMR genes detectable in MAG datasets we can greatly expand surveillance of these undersampled environments and organisms.
Through this, we can also identify inconsistencies and potential refinements of the existing nomenclature.

In this study, the phylogenetic neighborhoods of several mobilised AMR gene families, of public-health importance, were examined for diversity, spread, and classification consistency.
These gene families include: mobile colistin resistance (MCR), New Delhi beta-lactamase (NDM), Klebsiella pneumoniae carbapenemase (KPC), and the OXA-48-like beta-lactamase lactamase family.
Canonical genes in the Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database (CARD) for these families were used to identify putative homologues within CARD:Resistomes & Variants data, NCBI sequence databases, and draft quality MAGs from a large set of uncultivated bacterial and archeal sources (UBA).
For each of these 4 AMR gene families, phylogenetic analyses were conducted for the expanded set of candidate resistance genes.

Although limited uncharacterised diversity in NDM, KPC, and OXA-48 carbapenemases was uncovered, several possibly novel clades of MCR genes were discovered.
In general, the carbapenemas families were found to be more tightly defined, with most added diversity being either extremely close, or phylogenetically distant.
The MCR family showed many new clades of diversity, even within well defined "canonical" clades.
A large number of existing gene names within all 4 families were identified to be inconsistent with phylogeny or inconsequential in relation to the diversity they encompass.
Additionally, there was a huge variability in the diversity encompassed by individual allele names across the AMR gene families analysed.
These results highlight the need to incorporate MAG data into AMR surveillance work and to develop consistent, robust, phylogenetically defined nomenclature for AMR genes.
