## Introduction

Antimicrobials, substances which can kill or inhibit the growth of microbes [@doi:10/dbhq], are key effectors in the ecology of microorganisms.
The evolution of resistance to these substances, known as antimicrobial resistance (AMR), is an important and ancient adaptive process [@doi:10/b3wbvx].
In the last century we have adopted and used antimicrobials to great effect in clinical medicine and agriculture.
However, the use and abuse of antimicrobials has led to increasing levels of observed AMR [@doi:10/f9wbjs].
This poses a growing global health risk by undermining our ability to treat infectious diseases and perform surgeries [@doi:10/gfnrkj].
Infections by resistant microbes have greater mortality and morbidity [@doi:10/gfnrkj] with the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control estimating that 25,000 people per year die due to AMR [@doi:10/c9zd].

AMR can be due to intrinsic resistance within the organism or the acquisition of resistance via mechanisms involving mobile genetic elements such as lateral gene transfer [@doi:10/b3wbvx, @doi:10/d3ps].
These mechanisms allow for the constant change of the resistome, making determining the scope of AMR within both pathogenic and non-pathogenic bacteria difficult [@doi:10/f9wbjs].
Pathogens have acquired the ability to inactivate antibiotics, such as beta-lactamase prodution[@doi:10/ddwb5h], but have also acquired the ability to modify target sites of antibiotics, and to regulate outer membrane proteins which would cause susceptibility to antibiotics[@doi:10/dzzh].
To mitigate the spread of AMR the World Health Organization (WHO) created an action plan which emphasizes the need to strengthen our understanding and surveillance of AMR. 
An important aspect of this research is to examine the spread of AMR between environmental and clinical samples (https://www.who.int/antimicrobial-resistance/global-action-plan/en/).
One way to try to understand the evolution and spread of AMR is to perform large-scale evolutionary analyses with samples from lots of different environments/contexts. Phylogenetic and phylodynamics are the key component of a lot of this work.
Some of the most critical pathogens are the multi-drug resistant "ESKAPE" pathogens: _Enterococcus faecium_, _Staphylococcus aureus_, _Klebsiella pneumoniae_, _Acinetobacter baumannii_, _Pseudomonas aeruginosa_, and _Enterobacter_ spp. [@doi:10/dzzh,@doi:10/f9h4q3].
These pathogens are also a subset of the WHO's priority list of organisms, (https://www.who.int/medicines/publications/global-priority-list-antibiotic-resistant-bacteria/en/), and deemed to be high priority pathogens [@doi:10/frhgmx]  [https://www.who.int/medicines/publications/WHO-PPL-Short_Summary_25Feb-ET_NM_WHO.pdf?ua=1]. They have become resistant to several antibiotics, including carbapenems, several of which are last line defense antibiotics [@doi:10/d595m9].
Treatment of these resistant pathogens is constrained to relatively few drugs.
Vancomycin, non-carbapenem beta-lactams, beta-lactamase inhibitors, and cephalosporins are all used heavily for treating many of these infections (https://library.nshealth.ca/ld.php?content_id=34828434, https://library.nshealth.ca/ld.php?content_id=34879080)
Carbapenems are broad spectrum beta-lactam antibiotics typically used to treat life threatening, high risk, and multi-drug resistant bacterial infections. 
Beta-lactamase producing bacteria have difficulty degrading carbapenems when combined with beta-lactamase inhibitors making them effective treatments against pathogens with multi-drug resistance [@doi:10/c9zd].
The Canadian Nosocomial Infection Surveillance Program has shown that there has has been a recent emergence of resistance to carbapenamases in a subset of these ESKAPE pathogens, presenting a new threat to public health (https://www.canada.ca/en/public-health/services/publications/science-research-data/summary-report-healthcare-associated-infection-antimicrobial-resistance-antimicrobial-use-surveillance-data-2013-2017.html).
One way microbes can develop carbapenem resistance is through the acquisition of carbapenamase genes. [@doi:10/c9zd].
Three common carbapenamase gene families of concern, each belonging to a class of carbapenemases, are _Klebsiella pneumoniae_ carbapenamase (KPC), New Delhi metallo-beta-lactamase (NDM), and OXA-48 type beta-lactamases [@doi:10/c9zd], and each belong to a class of carbapenamases.

Carbapenamases are classified as one of four classes (A-D) based on their molecular structure [@doi:10/cdckks].
Class A, C, and D both use a serine residue to hydrolyze beta-lactam antibiotics [@doi:10/bp6dp2].
KPC genes are a part of class A, and are the most prevalent in that class [@doi:10/c9zd]. 
Many variants of KPC are spreading and being discovered, however carbapenamases within this class are more rare than those within classes B, C, and D [@doi:10/c9zd].
Class B beta-lactamases are metallo-enzymes that use a zinc active site to hydrolyze beta-lactam antibiotics. 
The NDM gene is classified as a class B beta-lactamase [@doi:10/c9zd], and is the most prevalent in that class [@doi:10/c9zd].
When pathogens become resistant to carbapenems, a common last line of defense is the polymyxin E (colistin) and B antibiotics.
Polymyxins act via disrupting membrane permeability [@doi:10/dbht].
Colistin happens to be effective against many, but not all, priority and "ESKAPE" pathogens.
Colistin is limited to a last line defense against carbapenem resistant infections due to its neurotoxic and nephrotoxic effects [@doi:10/dbht].
Despite its already limited use, mobilized colistin resistance (MCR) has been discovered [@doi:10/gdqcfq].

Class D contains the OXA-48 family of beta-lactamases which are the most prevalent in that class [@doi:10/c9zd]. 
Unlike KPC and NDM, the OXA family is characterized by phenotype rather than genotype. 
This family is characterized by specific hydrolases that can hydrolyze oxacillin and cloxacillin, with the enzyme being poorly inhibited by clavulanic acid (https://card.mcmaster.ca/ontology/36026).
This results in relatively few homology relationships within the family.
A subset of this family, OXA-48 possesses carbapenem hydrolyzing activity [@doi:10/cn235v].
The OXA-48 subfamily consists of five variants: OXA-48, OXA-162, OXA-163, OXA-181, OXA-204, and OXA-232 [@doi:10/dbhs].

Due to the emergence of resistance to many last-line antibiotics, it is important to characterize the total diversity and spread of these key resistance determinants. However, to perform these types of analyses we need two resources: a clear consolidated definition of what constitutes an AMR-related gene and a large amount of sequenced microbial genomes.

Naming and defining AMR genes is difficult due to the legacy names, pre-DNA sequencing technology, and the large number of different researchers and stakeholders involved in AMR such as government organizations, human health, animal health, and agri-food industries [https://www.canada.ca/en/health-canada/services/publications/drugs-health-products/federal-action-plan-antimicrobial-resistance-canada.html].
AMR determinants are typically classified into AMR families [@doi:10.1093/nar/gkz935], some of which are based on phenotypic properties, and some based on sequence variation.
The nomenclature is usually an acronym with varying representations, such as the mechanism of resistance, the organism it is associated with, or the molecular structre.
Each acronym is assigned a numerical value to distinguish variants.
Each sequence, determined to be novel by some arbitrary criteria, is assigned a new number.
For example, the MCR phosphoethanolamine transferase gene family is a family of genes which code for a hindrance of the ability of colistin to bind to the cell membrane.
The MCR-3 gene has a sequence identity which has been deemed to be significantly different than that of the other MCR genes in the family.
MCR-3.1, has been deemed to be a variant of the MCR-3 gene, which has a slight variation in gene sequence from other MCR-3 genes[@doi:10/dw7v].
In looking at another AMR gene family, NDM beta-lactamase, a different set of criteria are used to name variants.
In this case, NDM-1, and NDM-2 differ only by a single amino acid substitution.
This system for classification has the potential to be misleading when conducting AMR research.
The amount of diversity encompassed within different names and alleles is hugely variable across AMR genes.
For example, NDM has little diversity, while MCR has a large amount of diversity.
Some AMR families are not even defined on the basis of sequence space but phenotypically.
An example of this is the OXA beta-lactamase family, which is is a phenotypically characterized family, and there are examples of determinants which have a low amount of sequence homology.
OXA-20 has less than 20% amino acid sequence identity when compared with several other OXA-48 family beta-lactamases [@doi:10/dwsr].
This is a problem when attempting to characterize the AMR determinants by sequence similarity.

High-quality manually curated AMR databases such as the Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database (CARD) [@doi:10.1093/nar/gkz935] provide a unified resource for the definition, nomenclature and classification of AMR genes.
CARD organizes this information through the antibiotic resistance ontology (ARO), a controlled vocabulary with defined relationships.
There are two datasets within CARD, CARD:Canonical and CARD:Prevalence.
Canonical is a conservative set of AMR genes and mutations that have been experimentally verified as being associated with resistance in a peer-reviewed publication.
As a consequence, most of the entries in CARD:Canonical are derived from the most intensively studied organisms, such as the *"ESKAPE"* pathogens.
On the other hand, CARD:Prevalence contains AMR sequences that have been detected by searching a broader set of WHO priority organism genomes from repositories such as National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI) for sequences similar to canonical sequences.
This database is meant to represent the diversity of all current sequence data available to the public.
This _in silico_ search is performed using CARD's BLAST-based Resistance Gene Identifier (RGI) tool and greatly increases the sequence diversity in CARD [@doi:10.1093/nar/gkz935].

However, this is still limited to a subset of all genomes currently available in central repositories like NCBI.
If we want to thoroughly understand the evolution and spread of AMR genes we need to analyse as many genomes as possible.
Unfortunately, the genomes in databases are largely sequenced from microbes that can be easily cultured. 
As only a subset of microbial diversity can be cultured, this means many of our existing genomes aren't necessarily representative of the environment from which they were sampled  [@doi:10.1038/s41564-017-0083-5].
Recently, techniques have been developed that allow the recovery of genomes from metagenomic data e.g. [@doi:10.7717/peerj.1165,@doi:10.1038/s41564-018-0171-1].
As metagenomic sequencing, the direct sequencing of all DNA in a sample, doesn't require culturing these metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) represent a huge source of novel microbial diversity.
Parks et. al. [@doi:10.1038/s41564-017-0083-5], generated new 7,903 bacterial and archaeal (Uncultured Bacteria and Archaea; UBA) MAGs representing >30% increase in the sampled phylogenetic diversity of the bacteria and archaea.

Identifying and phylogenetically analysing key carbapenem and colistin resistance genes in this dataset, CARD:Prevalence and NCBI non-redundant data, could greatly improve AMR surveillance of these genes.
We would characterize previously unseen diversity in genomes not yet analyzed for AMR, and provide insights into the diversity of AMR across non-clinical samples. This could inform our understanding of the transmission of these mobile critical AMR genes and help refine the nomenclature of this ever-expanding dataset. Therefore, in this work we present a comprehensive phylogenetic survey and analysis of KPC, NDM, OXA-48, and MCR across all currently sequenced genomes.
