## Results

### Phylogenetic analysis of putative MCR sequences

The phylogenetic relationships and diversity of the putative MCR family genes was investigated.
The diversity of MCR homologs used in the analysis was expanded by querying the CARD prevalence data (under the CARD strict category).
The 23 canonical MCR sequences were used in a BLASTP query on this data, producing 52 unique hits.
Many of these hits were found to show a high degree of sequence similarity shown in figure ??.
The subsequent phylogeny would not have been more informative by including these sequences, and it was thus desirable to reduce these to representative sequences.
Clustering the prevalence hits with CD-Hit with 99% sequence similarity reduced the set to 6 representative sequences as shown in Table ??.
A total of 30 sequences, (an outgroup, the 23 canonical sequences, and the 6 prevalence sequences) were retained for the analysis of putative MCR sequences.
The sequences were aligned with MAFFT (TODO: retrieve missing output), and a maximum likelihood tree in figure ?? was produced with IQ-TREE under the LG+I+G4 model with 1000 UltraFast Bootstrap iterations.
Branches with support of less than 90% were collapsed into multifurcations.
The tree in figure ?? shows several distinct clades containing variants of the the canonical MCR sequences. Together, MCR-1, MCR-2, and MCR-6 form a clade, and the remainder of the named MCR transferases families appear in distinct clades.

### Phylogenetic analysis of UBA sequences

The BLASTP on the non-redundant database produced the distribution of taxa shown in Figure ?? after clustering the sequences with CD-HIT at 70% identity. This resulted in a total of ## sequences for subsequent analysis.
A total of ## hits were labeled as MCR determinants on the NCBI database. The distribution of MCR families is shown in figure ??. One of these hits produced an additional MCR variant, MCR-9.
The remainder were phosphoethanolamine lipid A transferase genes which were not labeled as being associated with the MCR family.

A BLASTP on the UBA data with canonical MCR query sequences produced a total of ## hits and the distribution of taxa shown in figure ??.

To examine the phylogenetic relationship of the UBA sequences to a broad range of genes, the UBA data was combined with the canonical MCR genes, non-redundant hits, and prevalence hits. The sequences were aligned with MAFFT (TODO: again, retrieve missing output). The parameters chosen for this part of the analysis resulted in gappiness in the alignments to the degree depicted in ??. TrimAl was used to remove the uninformative sites to produce the alignment depicted in ??. The values chosen for e-value and query coverage in the BLASTP queries had a large impact on the number of gaps present in the alignment, and the final parameters were chosen such that a reasonable amount of diversity was maintained while keeping the number of gaps low. (reword and put in methods?)
A maximum likelihood tree in figure ?? was produced with IQ-TREE under the LG+I+G4 model with 1000 UltraFast Bootstrap iterations.
In the final tree figure ??, The MCR 3 clade, which branches with the NCBI hit, MCR-9, is separated by a large amount diversity from the MCR 1,2,4,5,8 clades.
This diversity is represented by several of phosphoethanolamine lipid A transferase genes, none punitively reported for be in the MCR family.

#### MCR-5, MCR-1,2,6 clades

The MCR-5, MCR1,2,6clades shown in figure ?? share, with 100 bootstrap support, a common ancestor.
Branching between these two clades, as a descendant to this ancestor, is a clade of Psycrobacter species bacteria, including two hits from the non-redundant database and two hits from the UBA query. The RGI CARD data reports the identity of these UBAs as, UBA3068 A Psychrobacter sp., sampled from Oil polluted marine microbial communities from Coal Oil Point_ Santa Barbara_ California_ USA, and  UBA4193, a Psychrobacter sp, sampled from the New York City MTA subway samples Metagenome.
Psychrobacter also appears in 2 of the NCBI hits which branch with the UBAs, one labeled as Psychrobacter piscatorii, the other, Psychrobacter piscatorii, sp.

#### MCR-3 clade
A single hit, UBA705, from Comparative metagenome analyses of anode-associated microbial communities developed in rice paddy field-soil microbial fuel cells, reported to be Aeromonas hydrophilia is present within the clade alone with several other canonical and non-redundant Aeromonadalacea.

#### MCR 3,9 clade
This clade contains 8 UBAs from the loose CARD hits under the given constraints, and several NCBI non-redundant hits not reported as MCR family genes.
7 Loose hits for MCR in a /Leclercia/ adecarboxylata branch within this clade, branching closely with the NCBI non-redundant MCR9.
These /Leclercia/ branch below the common ancestor of MCR-9 and MCR-3 which are well supported. The /Leclercia/ UBAs were all sampled from New York City MTA subway samples Metagenome.

UBA4962, representing Comamonadaceae bacterium, from the New York City MTA subway samples metagenome was found in a clade containing MCR8- family.
