## Discussion

The aim of this study was to use the phylogenetic relationships of AMR genes to expand on current AMR surveillance efforts of CARD.
Loose RGI matches in the MAGs for MCR, NDM, KPC, and OXA-48 were examined, but after applying conservative filtering criteria, only the MCR survey produced matches which would be worthy of further consideration for resistance testing.
This contradistinction between the MCR analysis and the beta lactamase analyses could be explained by plasmid distributions.
Plasmids could have been poorly recovered in the assembly phase of the SRA experiments.
These experiments were performed with high-throughput sequencing, many using Illumina HiSeq 2000 and 2500, which produce short reads.
Plasmids from short reads are known to be difficult to assemble due to sequence characteristics.
For example repeat sequences, which are common on plasmids, are often shared with other genomic elements from many genomes, and produces many contigs of ambiguous origin [@doi:10/gf6b63].
There are tools which exist, like PlasmidSPAdes, Recycler, cBar and PlasmidFinder (TODO:doi), which are designed specifically for the task of assembling plasmids, but with metagenomic data, many of these tools have have weaknesses which are prohibitive, especially for plasmids above 50 kbp in length[@doi:10/gf6b63].
In the SRA experiments, this specialized assembly is not used, and many of the plasmid fragments would have been binned poorly.
If the MCR homologs were mostly present on chromosomes or other extrachromosomal molecules, and the beta lactamase genes were present on plasmids, one would expect a lack of beta lactamase hits (TODO: get this data in the results).
If the criteria for filtering the downstream data are also considered, then there are a multitude of reasons that these plasmid fragments would not appear in the final gene alignments for NDM, KPC, and OXA-48.
This data's genomes were recovered using Metabat [@doi:10/gdf329] (TODO: Should this be mentioned when describing the dataset?), which clustered sequences into genome bins.
After binning, filters were applied such that only contigs meeting a certain minimum size, and coverage were used.
In the phylogenetic portion of the analysis, conservative measures were taken to produce trees with high support values.
These constraints included strict ranges for query coverage. It would be unlikely that genes on plasmids were included in the analysis after this entire process took place.
Even though the MCR tree included 91 MAG sourced sequences, only a portion of these were of any interest.
Many of the sequences fell too far from any canonical MCR clade.
This shows that to provide a real effort with metagenomic data and surveillance involving phylogenetic relationships, it would be desirable to sequence with longer reads, have better assembly for plasmids, and to have more data.
In treating this data in a conservative way, we sacrifice many low quality, questionable phylogenetic relationships for few, potentially meaningful, high quality relationships.
When dealing with second generation sequencing methods and metagenomics, it appears that high quality data is rare.
One should be cautious when drawing conclusions about relationships derived from this sort of data.

Another way in which the analyses of MCR and the beta lactamases differ is in the spread and diversity of the relationships.
In addition to MAG sources, which are completely lacking in the beta lactamase trees, the MCR tree contains several sequences from NCBI’s non-redundant database which land close to canonical clades.
There are several clades made up of canonical and prevalence sequence genes separated by swathes of diversity from both NCBI and the MAGs.
This suggests that there could be more diversity to be found within the MCR class.
In contrast, the added diversity in phylogenies from OXA-48, KPC is distant from the canonical and prevalence sequences.
The matches which are close, are nearly identical to the canonical and prevalence sequences.The beta-lactamase phylogenies are low in gene diversity, and thus form very tight, closely related clades.
This displays that this study is very sensitive to the diversity of the gene being studied, whether it be from bias in sampling, or high amount of genetic conservation in the gene pool.

In assessing the value of the relationships present in these more tightly related phylogenies, it is surprising that the literature has produced so many named variants.
In the tree for NDM, we have named variants numbered from NDM 1 to NDM 14, yet most of the tree would be more appropriately displayed with multifurcating nodes.
There are fifteen named variants, but there are only three weakly distinct clades, and little bootstrap support (TODO: look at SNPs put this in results?).
The most divergent NDM sequence is a prevalence sequence which is labelled as NDM-1, yet is more distant from other homologs named NDM-1 than other NDM-1 genes.
The criteria for naming these genes seem to be completely arbitrary. Similarly, KPC is very tightly related and some of the same arguments could be made for classification of these sequences.
In the tree for OXA-48 like genes, we see more diversity, with branches of more support.
The tree forms few tightly related clades, and allows some diversity from NCBI to be added to the tree.
The OXA group, as a whole, is very diverse, but only because they are classified phenotypically.
If the OXA were more thoroughly separated into actual homologous groups, perhaps we would see more diversity added to the group, and perhaps even from metagenomic data.
These groups of OXA could behave very differently and some could have data recovery similar to that of MCR, but we are missing out on this because of the phenotypic naming scheme over a rigorous scheme which takes into account the genetic similarity.
In MCR, the naming situation is less arbitrary. The closely related variants are classified under the same primary number.
Several versions of MCR-1 exist, for example, and all form a clade.

TODO: Should we talk about things like Leclercia? e.g:
Most of the clades of new organisms from UBAs are not surprising. 
For the most part, taxa branched where expected, there doesn't seem to be much unexplained here. Many of these families added to the tree are associated with human disease/animal disease already, and one could expect to find colistin resistance there, however one family, Leclercia, branches in a curious place, and has not been shown to carry the MCR gene like this in any study 
If anything, these are at least an indicator that our conservative treatment of the metagenomic data was a good idea
